[Instructor] - Hi, and welcome back.
In this video we're going to look at installing packages
in Python, using the console.
At this point, if you don't have Python 3.5
or higher installed,
I recommend that you go and download and instal that now.
I'd recommend you instal the latest version of Python,
that is stable, of the current time of recording that's 3.6,
but when you're watching this, maybe 3.7 or later.
I recommend you instal that,
just because, you know you wanna stay ahead of the curve,
you wanna use the latest technologies,
and taking a course is a great opportunity to adopt
a new technology.
So I recommend you instal the latest version.
And also that's because later version of Python come with,
when you instal them, a programme called Pip.
That's, Pip like that.
Pip is used to instal Python packages.
And okay.
So, if we do Pip instal,
requests for example,
what this is gonna do is
it's going to go over to various websites,
and it's gonna look,
and see if it can find a Python package,
or a library called requests,
and if it can find it, it's gonna instal it.
So press Enter, and as you can see I get requirement,
already satisfied.
That's because
I've already installed requests,
but the fact that it's telling me this,
it means that requests exist.
So that's good.
This is what Python is doing in the background.
When you tell it to instal a library.
What it's doing is it's doing Pip instal,
and then the library, that you ask it to instal.
Okay, as you can see the requests library
is already installed in this folder here.
Usr/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages
This tells us that the requests package
we tried to instal right now,
we tried to instal it for Python 2.7.
We did not try to instal it for Python 3.7.
If you want to instal for Python 3.7,
you'll have to do pip3.7 instal requests
if you only have one version of Python installed,
I, you're using Windows,
or maybe Linux,
and you don't have multiple versions of Python installed,
you only have to do pip instal requests, okay?
This is what to do
if you only have one version of Python installed.
But if you have many, you can do pip3,
in order to choose the latest version of Python 3,
or pip 3.7, in order to choose Python 3.7,
and that's what you're installing.
So again, pip3.7 instal requests,
and it'll tell me now the requirements are already satisfied
but notice how now the location
of where it is already satisfied is different.
That's because I've installed Python 3.7,
in a different way than Python 2.7.
Python 2.7 comes with my computer,
Python 3.7 I've installed using the official installer.
So, this is how you'd instal packages using Pip.
And the package we're gonna want to instal now,
is one that you may already have, but nonetheless
it's a good idea to make sure you've got it,
is called virtualenv.
Now okay, as you can see it tells me
that I've already satisfied this,
but if you don't have virtualenv installed already,
I recommend that you do instal it.
When you use this virtualenv package,
what you can do,
is you can duplicate an existing Python installation.
So let's say you've got Python 3.7 installed,
you can use virtualenv to make a copy of that.
But, without any of the libraries
that you've already installed.
As you can see,
I've got requests already installed in Python 3.7,
if I create a virtual environment, using Python 3.7,
it won't have requests installed.
So let's do just now.
The way to do that is, by typing virtualenv,
then the name of the virtual environment,
it's normally venv, --python=python3.7
Again, instead of Python 3.7, you can type Python,
if you only have one version of Python installed.
By doing this, I'm saying run the virtualenv programme,
which again must be in my path,
and these here are two arguments
that I'm passing to that programme.
And programmes in the terminal can accept arguments.
Venv is a first argument,
and --python=python3.7 is a second argument.
The first argument is the name of the venv,
of the virtual environment which is,
in this case is gonna be venv.
The second argument tells the venv what programme to run,
that's Python 3.7,
when we are creating the virtual environment,
so it's gonna use Python 3.7 for this virtual environment.
So let's do just that.
Notice how a few things happen, it says it's using the
interpreter, Python 3.7,
and then it instals a couple of things like setup tools,
Pip and wheel,
those are few libraries that are very useful for,
for installing packages.
And then it's done.
Now,
inside your venv,
so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna open the current folder in my Explorer,
so that you can see exactly what we've got here,
let me just bring it up.
This is the venv folder that we've just created,
we've got a bunch of things.
We've got bin, and in here we've got,
you know Python, Python 3.7, Python 3, these are all,
Python programmes that we can run,
you've got Pip,
that you can run as well,
you've got a programme called activate,
if you're using Windows,
this may look slightly different,
you may have a scripts folder in here,
that's totally fine.
Now when you type which python3.7,
you can see that the Python 3.7 that we're going to run,
is still this one inside library frameworks.
If we do source .venv/bin/activate
and then type which python3.7 again,
now you can see that we are using our venv folder,
inside we've got bin, and inside we've got Python 3.7.
So what we're doing now is we're using a completely
different version of Python.
Well it's actually the same version,
but it says completely different installation of Python.
Before we were using this one in our library,
now we're using the one in our venv.
By the way, if you're using Windows,
it won't be source ./venv/bin/activate
if you're using Windows,
it'll be .\venv\Scripts\activate.bat
so if you're using Windows, you wanna run this line here,
instead of this one.
Okay?
But I'm not using Windows, so I don't need to do that.
You can also see that you've got slash or venv,
inside brackets at the start.
That tells you
that you're currently using this virtual environment.
Okay.
If you echo the path,
you see that now you've got something
at the start of the path.
/Users/jslvtr/venv/bin
Before we had this at the first folder,
now we've got this one.
So any programmes we try to run
are first going to be looked at,
inside this venv folder.
For example, Python 3.7.
This is really powerful, because now,
if we type Python 3.7,
we're using the Python 3.7 in our virtual environment.
If we then type import requests,
you can see that it cannot be found.
It's not installed.
So, if you want to instal requests,
now you can do pip instal requests
and that's going to instal
the requests library inside your virtual environment.
If you were then to go
and create another virtual environment,
and call it something else,
it would not have the requests library.
So these libraries,
when you're using a virtual environment,
are only installed within the virtual environment.
This is really great because it lets you have
different virtual environments each
with different versions of the same library potentially.
Let's say you just done a project today,
and you instal requests version 2.18.4
And you know, you develop
this project over a period of a few months,
or a couple of years,
and you'd never update the requests library.
But then, you start a new project,
and you know,
you wanna use the latest version of requests,
because maybe they fixed the bug or something,
you can do that,
you can create a new virtual environment
and instal the latest version.
And the old project that's using this version,
will not be affected.
Imagine they've also changed some of the functionality.
So that your old project would no longer work.
Now you don't have that problem,
because each project can have its own independent versions.
And by the way, this takes up
a few megabytes of your hard drive,
and essentially,
it's essentially free.
It doesn't cost you anything
to have multiple virtual environments,
I have many Python projects in my computer,
each on has its own virtual environment,
to keep it separate from every other project.
So moving forwards,
whenever you start a new project in Python,
create a virtual environment for it,
and make sure to use that,
whenever you're running your applications.
Over the rest of the course
we're going to be creating virtual environments
for projects, just to give you some examples
of how this works.
Now that you're in your venv though,
if you did have some Python files that you want to run,
for example,
like an app.py or something,
all you have to do is type python. App.py,
and that's going to run the Python programme in your path,
which is Python 3.7, 'cause that's what's in your venv,
and then it's gonna run the file app.py,
which is presumably the file that starts up your programme.
So this is how you would run a specific file with Python,
from within your console,
and you can do that within a virtual environment.
So that's gonna again give separation between your projects,
and it's gonna make them a bit more independent.
That's it for this video though,
it's getting a bit longer now,
so let's continue in the next one.